---
title: Podcast
layout: template
filename: Podcast.md
--- 

<h1><a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini" target="_blank">Food Science and Technology Podcast</a></h1>

<h2><a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/Enhancing-Antioxidant-Power-Blueberry-vaccum-impregnated-Apple-Snacks-e2p7ubg" target="_blank">Episode 1: Enhancing Antioxidant Power: Blueberry-vaccum impregnated Apple Snacks</a></h2>
This research article explores the impact of vacuum impregnation and different air-drying temperatures on the anthocyanin composition and antioxidant capacity of cranberry juice incorporated into an apple matrix. The authors studied the incorporation of cranberry juice into fresh apple slices using vacuum impregnation, followed by stabilization of the product through air-drying and freeze-drying. The results demonstrated that vacuum impregnation was effective in incorporating cranberry juice without negatively affecting its bioactive compounds. While air-drying led to a significant loss of the initial anthocyanin content, freeze-drying preserved all individual anthocyanins. The study concluded that freeze-drying and air-drying at 40°C produced the best final product in terms of bioactive compound retention and antioxidant capacity. DOI: 10.1016/j.lwt.2015.06.044
<a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/Enhancing-Antioxidant-Power-Blueberry-vaccum-impregnated-Apple-Snacks-e2p7ubg" target="_blank">SPOTIFY</a>

<h2><a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/Innovation-in-the-Food-Industry-Trehalose-for-Improved-Quality-e2phge6" target="_blank">Episode 2: Innovation in the Food Industry: Trehalose for Improved Quality</a></h2>
This scientific article explores the effects of calcium and trehalose on the volumetric deformation of apple slices during air drying. The authors used nonlinear irreversible thermodynamics to analyze mass transport and deformation-relaxation of apple tissues during the drying process. The results show that calcium does not have a significant effect on volumetric deformation, while trehalose helps to maintain the integrity of the cellular structure, reducing irreversible deformations and improving the quality of the final product. DOI: 10.1016/j.jfoodeng.2014.09.028
<a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/Innovation-in-the-Food-Industry-Trehalose-for-Improved-Quality-e2phge6" target="_blank">SPOTIFY</a>

<h2><a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/The-Maqui-Berry-Miracle-Unlocking-the-Power-of-Superfoods-e2phj9v" target="_blank">Episode 3: The Maqui Berry Miracle: Unlocking the Power of Superfoods</a></h2>
This study investigates the effects of dietary supplementation with maqui (Aristotelia chilensis) in obese mice induced by a high-fat diet. The results indicate that maqui supplementation improves insulin sensitivity, reduces weight gain, and enhances thermogenic activity. Specifically, maqui supplementation was found to induce a brown-like phenotype in subcutaneous white adipose tissue (scWAT), marked by increased expression of genes involved in thermogenesis, de novo lipogenesis, and fatty acid oxidation. Additionally, these beneficial effects may be linked to improved FGF21 signaling and upregulation of key metabolic regulators, including Chrebpb, CREG1, PGC1a, and SREBP1c. DOI: DOI: 10.3390/antiox8090360
<a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/The-Maqui-Berry-Miracle-Unlocking-the-Power-of-Superfoods-e2phj9v" target="_blank">SPOTIFY</a>

<h2><a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/Electric-Fields-and-Dried-Apples-Revolutionizing-Food-Texture-and-Shelf-Life-e2pigt3" target="_blank">Episode 4: Electric Fields and Dried Apples: This research article examines how the use of pulsed electric fields (PEF) as a pretreatment affects the mechanical and sorption properties of dried apples. The authors found that PEF increases the water retention capacity of the apples and alters the shape of the sorption isotherm, suggesting an increase in crystalline components within the apple matrix. The study also investigated the plasticizing and antiplasticizing effects of water, finding that PEF can induce an antiplasticizing effect at low water levels. Overall, this study provides valuable insights into how PEF can be used to modify the physical properties of dried apples, potentially enhancing their quality and shelf life. DOI: 10.1016/j.ifset.2020.102442
<a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/Electric-Fields-and-Dried-Apples-Revolutionizing-Food-Texture-and-Shelf-Life-e2pigt3" target="_blank">SPOTIFY</a>

<h2><a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/Breaking-Down-Emulsions-Rice-Bran-Oil-and-Soy-for-Keto-Friendly-Foods-e2pih9h" target="_blank">Episode 5: Breaking Down Emulsions: Rice Bran Oil and Soy for Keto-Friendly Foods</a></h2>
his scientific article explores the development of rice bran oil-in-water emulsions stabilized with soy flour proteins and polysaccharides, designed as a base for food products that can be incorporated into ketogenic diets. The study examines the impact of formulation (ketogenic ratios and oil mass fractions) and high-pressure homogenization conditions (number of homogenization cycles) on the properties of the resulting emulsions. The authors found that emulsions prepared after five homogenization cycles exhibited greater resistance to coalescence compared to those prepared in a single cycle. Additionally, they analyzed the rheological behavior and overall stability of the emulsions, finding that most of the emulsions remained stable during seven days of refrigerated storage. DOI: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lwt.2019.108809
<a href="https://podcasters.spotify.com/pod/show/juancastagnini/episodes/Breaking-Down-Emulsions-Rice-Bran-Oil-and-Soy-for-Keto-Friendly-Foods-e2pih9h" target="_blank">SPOTIFY</a>